Now let’s look at the passive command
so on router 2, I’m going to go to router RIP
passive-interface and in this case I'm going to specify fastEthernet 0/1
show ip protocols
notice here RIP is no longer advertising routes out of F0/1
clear the IP routing table and do the same on router 3 to speed things up
so on router 3 show ip route
notice router 3 does not have any RIP routes in its routing table.
Debug ip rip will show me any RIP events
now here, the router's sending updates, it's ignoring a loopback interface
it's sending an update notice using the RIP multicast address 224.0.0.9
but it’s not receiving any updates on F0/0
on router 1, however, debug ip rip and I'll clear the routing table
to make it happen quickly, notice it's sending updates and it's receiving updates.
So scrolling back it's sending updates using the RIP multicast address
out of all interfaces that have RIP enabled on them
and notice here, it received an update from 10.1.1.2 on F0/0
so it received just turn that off, so un all
so it received an update from router 2 about these networks
and notice it is including 3.3.3.3
so router 1 is receiving updates and it's sending updates.
on router 2, it's still receiving updates about network 3 from router 3
but it’s not advertising any routes
so in this example, its able to ping 3.3.3.3
because the ping goes out on F0/0
and this interface is directly connected to router 3
but router 3 as an example, won’t be able to ping the loopback of router 2
because router 3 is not learning about that loopback.
The passive-interface command doesn’t stop the receiving of routes
but it does stop the advertisements of routes through an interface.
So on router 2, once again show ip protocols
so even if the show ip protocols command shows me
that it's only sending and receiving on this interface and this interface
the loopback, it is still actually receiving updates on F0/1
but it’s not advertising updates on F0/1.
So when router 3, sends an updates out of F0/0
that’s accepted by router 2 and advertised to router 1.
So router 1 learns about network 3.3.3.3
but it’s not able to ping it because the traffic will be routed to that loopback
but router 3 doesn’t know how to send it back again
we can prove that by doing a debug ip icmp
so when we do the ping notice, it was received by router 3.
But router 3 doesn’t know how to send the traffic back to router 1.
I’ll do un all and use the debug ip packet command
to prove that, notice unroutable.
Router 3 doesn’t know how to send the traffic back to router 1.
It doesn’t know how to get to IP address 10.1.1.1
so be careful with troubleshooting the passive command
will stop routers from advertising routes, the show ip protocols command
once again allows me to see which interfaces are passive on a router
and in this case it's  F0/1.
So router rip no passive interfacefastEthernet 0/1
show IP protocols, no passive interface is configured.
show ip route on router 3
notice suddenly it has RIP routes in the routing table.
Ping 1.1.1.1 routers 3 is now able to ping the loopback of router 1
be careful of passive interface commands.